feat: speedy css tip animated loader post (#8709)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/speedy-css-tip-animated-loader/index.md

---
title: Speedy CSS Tip! Animated Loader
subhead: Let's make an animated CSS loader with scoped custom properties and animation-timing-function
date: 2022-09-22
hero: image/Dyx9FwYgMyNqy1kMGx8Orz6q0qC3/vzvc5Ep1blYUQMYYnAKT.jpg
authors:
  - jheyy
tags: 
  - blog
  - css

> ---
> Hop over to [CodePen](https://pen.new) and create a new pen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

Hop over to [CodePen](https://pen.new) and create a new pen.
```

Reviewer: Total nit, but a line between the front matter and the post is just a bit cleaner to read.

Author: All good. I removed it thinking it had added extra whitespace but don't think that was the case 😅

> Create the markup for our loader. Note the use of inline custom properties!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the markup for our loader. Note the use of inline custom properties:
```

```html
<div class="loader" style="--count: 10">
  <span style="--index: 0"></span>
  <span style="--index: 1"></span>
  <span style="--index: 2"></span>
  <span style="--index: 3"></span>
  <span style="--index: 4"></span>
  <span style="--index: 5"></span>
  <span style="--index: 6"></span>
  <span style="--index: 7"></span>
  <span style="--index: 8"></span>
  <span style="--index: 9"></span>
</div>

```

> Bonus points for using a generator(Pug 👇) to configure the number of lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use a generator ([Pug](https://pugjs.org/api/getting-started.html)) to configure the number of lines:
```

```pug
- const COUNT = 10
.loader(style=`--count: ${COUNT}`)
  - let i = 0
  while i < COUNT
    span(style=`--index: ${i}`)
    - i++
```

> Give our loader some styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Give our loader some styles:
```

```css
loader {

>   --size: 10vmin;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --size: 10vmin;

```

Reviewer: I've seen this enforced by stylelint in the past. I think it helps with readability to put variable declarations at the top of a CSS rule and then separate the following rules with a line.

  height: var(--size);
  position: relative;
  width: var(--size);
}
```

> Position our lines using absolute positioning and a combo of `calc` with `transform`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Position our lines using absolute positioning and a combination of `calc` with `transform`:
```

```css
.loader span {
  background: grey;
  height: 25%;
  left: 50%;
  position: absolute;
  top: 50%;
  transform: translate(-50%, -50%)
             rotate(calc(((360 / var(--count)) * var(--index)) * 1deg))
             translate(0, -125%);
  width: 10%;
}
```

> Apply an opacity based on the `--index`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply an opacity based on the `--index`:
```
